doc/source/index.rst, before:

.. ACME documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Dec 18 12:23:52 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. title:: ACME Documentation

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/esi-neuroscience/acme/master/doc/source/_static/acme_logo.png
   :alt: ACME-Logo

Welcome to the Documentation of ACME
====================================
ACME (**A**\synchronous **C**\omputing **M**\ade **E**\asy, pronounced *"ak-mee"*)
is a framework for calling Python functions in parallel, primarily intended for
using SLURM on the ESI HPC cluster (local multi-processor hardware is supported as well).
ACME is based on the parallelization engine used in `SyNCoPy <http://www.syncopy.org/>`_ and
is itself part of SyNCoPy.

Getting Started
---------------
Please have a look at the :doc:`Quickstart Guide <quickstart>`.

Examples
--------
Simple to advanced Usage examples our collected on our `GitHub Page <https://github.com/esi-neuroscience/acme#usage>`_.

User Guide
----------
A more elaborate tour illustrating how to use ACME in various scenarios is
provided in the :ref:`User Walkthrough <userguide>`.

API Documentation
-----------------
The full source code documentation can be found in the :doc:`API Docs <api>`.

Contact
-------
To report bugs or ask questions please use our `GitHub Issue Tracker <https://github.com/esi-neuroscience/acme/issues>`_.

Navigation
----------
* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. Any sections to be included in the Documentation dropdown menu have to be in the toctree

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   quickstart
   api

Commit message:

CHG: Revamped ACME Documentation
- migrated much of the (very very long) `ParallelMap` docstring to
  separate new documents of the online documentation.
- reworked README.md
- included new Troubleshooting + FAQ page (following feedback from @naehert)

 On branch dev
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   CITATION.cff
	modified:   README.md
	modified:   acme.yml
	modified:   acme/frontend.py
	new file:   doc/source/best_practices.rst
	modified:   doc/source/index.rst
	modified:   doc/source/quickstart.rst
	new file:   doc/source/troubleshooting_faq.rst
	new file:   doc/source/userguide.rst

doc/source/index.rst, after:

.. ACME documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Dec 18 12:23:52 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. title:: ACME Documentation

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/esi-neuroscience/acme/master/doc/source/_static/acme_logo.png
   :alt: ACME-Logo

Welcome to the Documentation of ACME
====================================
ACME (**A**\synchronous **C**\omputing **M**\ade **E**\asy, pronounced *"ak-mee"*)
is a framework for calling Python functions in parallel, primarily intended for
using SLURM on the ESI HPC cluster (local multi-processor hardware is supported as well).
ACME is based on the parallelization engine used in `SyNCoPy <http://www.syncopy.org/>`_ and
is itself part of SyNCoPy.

Getting Started
---------------
Please have a look at the :doc:`Quickstart Guide <quickstart>`.

Examples
--------
Simple to advanced Usage examples our collected on our `GitHub Page <https://github.com/esi-neuroscience/acme#usage>`_.

User Guide
----------
A more elaborate tour illustrating how to use ACME in various scenarios is
provided in the :doc:`User Walkthrough <userguide>`. A short intro for how to use
ACME in your processing pipeline is provided in :doc:`Best Practices <best_practices>`.
Things don't go as planned? Take a look at :doc:`Troubleshooting + FAQ <troubleshooting_faq>`.

API Documentation
-----------------
The full source code documentation can be found in the :doc:`API Docs <api>`.

Contact
-------
To report bugs or ask questions please use our `GitHub Issue Tracker <https://github.com/esi-neuroscience/acme/issues>`_.

Navigation
----------
* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. Any sections to be included in the Documentation dropdown menu have to be in the toctree

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   quickstart
   best_practices
   troubleshooting_faq
   api
