doc/source/troubleshooting_faq.rst, before:

Troubleshooting + FAQ
======================
ACME is solely intended for executing user-provided functions multiple
times in parallel. Thus, only problems that can be split up into
independent tasks can be processed with :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` ("embarassingly parallel workloads").
Inter-process communication, worker-synchronization or shared memory
problems **will not work**.

.. contents:: Quick Links
    :depth: 2

If Things Go Wrong
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
First and foremost, ensure that the function you want to execute in parallel
runs fine on its own. Consider

.. code-block:: python

    def f(x, y, z=3, w=np.arange(3)):
        return (x.sum() + y) * z * w.max()

Then

.. code-block:: python

    >>> f(np.ones((3,)), 4)
    42.0

works as expected. However,

.. code-block:: python

    >>> f([1,1,1], 4)
    AttributeError                            Traceback (most recent call last)
    Input In [10], in <cell line: 1>()
    ----> 1 f([1,1,1], 4)

    Input In [8], in f(x, y, z, w, **kwargs)
        1 def f(x, y, z=3, w=np.arange(3), **kwargs):
    ----> 2     return (x.sum() + y) * z * w.max()

    AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'sum'

fails, since the Python list `[1,1,1]` does not support summing its components via
the method `.sum()` as NumPy arrays do. Thus, invoking :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` like this:

.. code-block:: python

    with ParallelMap(f, [[1, 1, 1], [2, 2, 2]], 4) as pmap:
        results = pmap.compute()

will similarly make any spawned distributed workers crash with ``Compute Failed``
errors. The root problem is of course completely unrelated to actual parallel
execution of `f` but is instead actually caused by using the wrong input type for `x`.
*Nail It Before You Scale It*.

FAQ
^^^

Q: My function runs fine sequentially. But with ACME I'm getting lots of ``distributed.core - INFO - Event loop was unresponsive in Worker for 3.34s.  This is often caused by long-running GIL-holding functions or moving large chunks of data. This can cause timeouts and instability.`` Errors
***************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
This may happen if the function you're wrapping with :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` is defined
in the same script you also invoke :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`. See :ref:`Best Practices <mainblock>` for
a strategy to circumvent this problem.

Q: I try to run ACME locally on my machine but I always get a ``RuntimeError``
******************************************************************************
If you call :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` (or `local_cluster_setup`) inside a script that does not
contain a ``if __name__ == "__main__"`` block, starting parallel workers results
in an infinite recursion triggered by new processes being started before the calling
process can finish its bootstrapping phase. Thus, try wrapping :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`
(or `local_cluster_setup`) inside a main module block, i.e.,

.. code-block:: python

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        ...
        local_cluster_setup()

        with ParallelMap(...) ...
        ...

If you still encounter problems, try migrating the function you are :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`-ping
to a separate `.py` file (see :ref:`Best Practices <isolation>`).

Q: I started a parallel computing client manually - how can I shut it down?
***************************************************************************
You can simply use the client's ``.close()`` class method (e.g., ``myclient.close()``)
or use the ACME convenience function :func:`~acme.cluster_cleanup`.


ESI-HPC Cluster Specifics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To make optimal use of the ESI HPC infrastructure, please make sure to first
pick the right SLURM partition for your task (ACME's default falls back to
our "smallest" partition `8GBXS`).

Instead of letting ACME automatically spawn and kill SLURM jobs, you can use
the helper function :func:`~acme.esi_cluster_setup` to start a parallel computing client
using a set number of SLURM jobs (=workers). This client can be re-used across
several invocations of :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`. Specifically, if you plan to call :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`
multiple times in your analysis script, overall runtime performance can be greatly improved
by creating a client once at the beginning and subsequently "recycling" it for every
:class:`~acme.ParallelMap` call (otherwise ACME spawns and kills workers every time you invoke
:class:`~acme.ParallelMap`). In practice, a single line at the top of your script is sufficient
to put this strategy into action (ACME picks up any existing client automatically,
you don't have to tell it beforehand):

.. code-block:: python

    from acme import ParallelMap, cluster_cleanup

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        myclient = esi_cluster_setup(partition="16GBXL", n_workers=10)

        ...
        with ParallelMap(...) as pmap:
            pmap.compute()

        ...
        with ParallelMap(...) as pmap:
            pmap.compute()

        ...
        with ParallelMap(...) as pmap:
            pmap.compute()

        cluster_cleanup(myclient)

Commit message:

CHG: Updated licensing info
- updated licensing information for entire package
- use `reuse` to set up proper licensing for all files in the
  repo

 On branch doc_enh
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   .coveragerc
	modified:   .github/workflows/tests_workflow.yml
	modified:   .gitignore
	modified:   .gitlab-ci.yml
	modified:   .readthedocs.yml
	new file:   .reuse/dep5
	modified:   CHANGELOG.md
	modified:   CITATION.cff
	new file:   LICENSES/BSD-3-Clause.txt
	new file:   LICENSES/CC0-1.0.txt
	modified:   MANIFEST.in
	modified:   README.md
	modified:   acme/__init__.py
	modified:   acme/backend.py
	modified:   acme/dask_helpers.py
	modified:   acme/frontend.py
	modified:   acme/logger.py
	modified:   acme/shared.py
	modified:   acme/spy_interface.py
	modified:   acme/tests/conftest.py
	modified:   acme/tests/local_acme.py
	modified:   acme/tests/no_slurm.sh
	modified:   acme/tests/run_tests.cmd
	modified:   acme/tests/run_tests.sh
	modified:   acme/tests/test_dask.py
	modified:   acme/tests/test_pmap.py
	modified:   codecov.yml
	modified:   doc/Makefile
	modified:   doc/make.bat
	new file:   doc/source/_static/acme_demo.gif.license
	new file:   doc/source/_static/acme_icon.png.license
	new file:   doc/source/_static/acme_icon.svg.license
	new file:   doc/source/_static/acme_logo.png.license
	new file:   doc/source/_static/acme_logo.svg.license
	new file:   doc/source/_static/dashboard.gif.license
	modified:   doc/source/_static/esi-style.css
	modified:   doc/source/advanced_usage.rst
	modified:   doc/source/api.rst
	modified:   doc/source/best_practices.rst
	modified:   doc/source/conf.py
	modified:   doc/source/index.rst
	modified:   doc/source/quickstart.rst
	modified:   doc/source/troubleshooting_faq.rst
	modified:   doc/source/userguide.rst
	modified:   pyproject.toml
	modified:   setup.cfg
	modified:   setup.py
	modified:   tox.ini

doc/source/troubleshooting_faq.rst, after:

.. Copyright © 2023 Ernst Strüngmann Institute (ESI) for Neuroscience in Cooperation with Max Planck Society

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause

Troubleshooting + FAQ
======================
ACME is solely intended for executing user-provided functions multiple
times in parallel. Thus, only problems that can be split up into
independent tasks can be processed with :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` ("embarassingly parallel workloads").
Inter-process communication, worker-synchronization or shared memory
problems **will not work**.

.. contents:: Quick Links
    :depth: 2

If Things Go Wrong
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
First and foremost, ensure that the function you want to execute in parallel
runs fine on its own. Consider

.. code-block:: python

    def f(x, y, z=3, w=np.arange(3)):
        return (x.sum() + y) * z * w.max()

Then

.. code-block:: python

    >>> f(np.ones((3,)), 4)
    42.0

works as expected. However,

.. code-block:: python

    >>> f([1,1,1], 4)
    AttributeError                            Traceback (most recent call last)
    Input In [10], in <cell line: 1>()
    ----> 1 f([1,1,1], 4)

    Input In [8], in f(x, y, z, w, **kwargs)
        1 def f(x, y, z=3, w=np.arange(3), **kwargs):
    ----> 2     return (x.sum() + y) * z * w.max()

    AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'sum'

fails, since the Python list `[1,1,1]` does not support summing its components via
the method `.sum()` as NumPy arrays do. Thus, invoking :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` like this:

.. code-block:: python

    with ParallelMap(f, [[1, 1, 1], [2, 2, 2]], 4) as pmap:
        results = pmap.compute()

will similarly make any spawned distributed workers crash with ``Compute Failed``
errors. The root problem is of course completely unrelated to actual parallel
execution of `f` but is instead actually caused by using the wrong input type for `x`.
*Nail It Before You Scale It*.

FAQ
^^^

Q: My function runs fine sequentially. But with ACME I'm getting lots of ``distributed.core - INFO - Event loop was unresponsive in Worker for 3.34s.  This is often caused by long-running GIL-holding functions or moving large chunks of data. This can cause timeouts and instability.`` Errors
***************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
This may happen if the function you're wrapping with :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` is defined
in the same script you also invoke :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`. See :ref:`Best Practices <mainblock>` for
a strategy to circumvent this problem.

Q: I try to run ACME locally on my machine but I always get a ``RuntimeError``
******************************************************************************
If you call :class:`~acme.ParallelMap` (or `local_cluster_setup`) inside a script that does not
contain a ``if __name__ == "__main__"`` block, starting parallel workers results
in an infinite recursion triggered by new processes being started before the calling
process can finish its bootstrapping phase. Thus, try wrapping :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`
(or `local_cluster_setup`) inside a main module block, i.e.,

.. code-block:: python

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        ...
        local_cluster_setup()

        with ParallelMap(...) ...
        ...

If you still encounter problems, try migrating the function you are :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`-ping
to a separate `.py` file (see :ref:`Best Practices <isolation>`).

Q: I started a parallel computing client manually - how can I shut it down?
***************************************************************************
You can simply use the client's ``.close()`` class method (e.g., ``myclient.close()``)
or use the ACME convenience function :func:`~acme.cluster_cleanup`.


ESI-HPC Cluster Specifics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To make optimal use of the ESI HPC infrastructure, please make sure to first
pick the right SLURM partition for your task (ACME's default falls back to
our "smallest" partition `8GBXS`).

Instead of letting ACME automatically spawn and kill SLURM jobs, you can use
the helper function :func:`~acme.esi_cluster_setup` to start a parallel computing client
using a set number of SLURM jobs (=workers). This client can be re-used across
several invocations of :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`. Specifically, if you plan to call :class:`~acme.ParallelMap`
multiple times in your analysis script, overall runtime performance can be greatly improved
by creating a client once at the beginning and subsequently "recycling" it for every
:class:`~acme.ParallelMap` call (otherwise ACME spawns and kills workers every time you invoke
:class:`~acme.ParallelMap`). In practice, a single line at the top of your script is sufficient
to put this strategy into action (ACME picks up any existing client automatically,
you don't have to tell it beforehand):

.. code-block:: python

    from acme import ParallelMap, cluster_cleanup

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        myclient = esi_cluster_setup(partition="16GBXL", n_workers=10)

        ...
        with ParallelMap(...) as pmap:
            pmap.compute()

        ...
        with ParallelMap(...) as pmap:
            pmap.compute()

        ...
        with ParallelMap(...) as pmap:
            pmap.compute()

        cluster_cleanup(myclient)
